---
layout: post
title: Self as star
tag: poetry
---

August 16: I imagine that I was born under the Perseids,  
long hairs drawn from the heavens shining over my hospital nativity<!--more-->,  
even though I know that the timing was not quite right  
for the skies to have poured that bright sand over my fluid-filled lungs.  

The Perseids peak again tonight, the nineteenth bout  
to burn themselves above me, as I slather mud on my acne and stew  
in my now-scarred wrappings like some ungulate upon  
some far wild grassland, alive only in documentaries, or in dreams.  

The steppe underfoot unfurls to a tapestry of night  
studded with stars and brushed with a velvet warmer and darker  
and heavier than any possible comfort of man, and I,  
sorry rhinoceros, am beautiful in constellation in this storied sky.  

And I, beauty be, I am burning and turning, meteoric  
in the heavens of my earth, falling towards that unburnt star seamed  
in golden strands of life. And I am gloriously bright  
now, my long track streaming behind, a golden unbranched bough—  

I am ripe and falling, a leather rind charred crisp without  
and untouched ice within, and I am every toothy beast that man  
has feared and will fear. My gluttony is no sin too great  
to forgive. I am wonderous nourishment just as I am acid itself.  

And there is a beauty and a grossness in this stone  
of a heart in the peach of my flesh. And there is a smallness and  
a greatness in the pit of my brains, in the everything  
and in the nothing that I compose: dually compost and composer.  

Truth be, the stars fall tonight as they always have  
and always will, till no woman walks those dream-cities and no beast   
runs those dream-plains and ever new comets grate  
fresh hairs of light and ever new I unravel, grow old, become entire.  

---

## self to self

Perseid nativity: lungs of amnion. stew of dreams.  
hairs darker and heavier than a story: meteoric.  
within a sour fruit hides a pitted stone of golden seams.  
upon this earth I am all there is. then I fall: euphoric.  
